Most profitable company
=======================

Question
--------
1. Find the 3 most profitable companies
2. expected result : company | profits
3. sort the result by profits in descending order

Table
-----
<pre>
<code>
+----------------------------------+
|company|sector|industry|..|profits|
+----------------------------------+
</code>
</pre>

### Approach
1. Calculate the profits of each company
2. Order by profits
3. Get the most profitable companies

### Code
<pre>
<code>
SELECT company, profits
FROM (SELECT company, SUM(profits) AS profits
      FROM forbes_global_2010_2014
      GROUP BY company) sub
ORDER BY profits DESC
LIMIT 3
</code>
</pre>

I got each of company's profit. I used SUM() in case they have duplicate company that's why I groupby company. For getting the 3 most profitable companies I used limit function. What I was wrong about my approach is that I misunderstood about the question. I thought I had to get simply 3 profitable companies. However, it meant to be all the companies from 1st-3rd rank.

### Improvement
<pre>
<code>
SELECT company, profits,
        DENSE_RANK() OVER(ORDER BY profits DESC) as rnk
FROM
  (SELECT company, profits
  FROM
    (SELECT company, SUM(profits) AS profits
    FROM forbes_global_2010_2014
    GROUP BY company) sub ) sub_2
 WHERE rnk <= 3
</code>
</pre>

I had to use DENSE_RANK() function, instead of using RANK_OVER(). It's because we needed to get all the companies, whose rank is between 1st and 3rd. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to consider other companies if we used RANK_OVER(). Let's suppose you have table like down below. From A to B are supposed to be considered as of this question. But RANK_OVER() can't return D, E.
<pre>
<code>
+---------------------------------+
|company | profits | DENSE | RANK |
| A      | 100     | 1     | 1    |
| B      | 100     | 1     | 1    |
| C      | 100     | 1     | 1    |
| D      | 90      | 2     | 4    |
| E      | 85      | 3     | 5    |
+---------------------------------+
</code>
</pre>
